# The Smart Injector: A Robotic Approach of Automated Multiple Injection System for Critical Patients using Real Time Clock Feature

In the rural world of medical services, we generally notice a lot of havoc which generally happens in the hospitals, clinics and related other medical centers. The conditions of Intensive Care Units (ICU) of the rural areas are quite intolerable because of the lack of qualified nurses. Doctors generally prescribe multiple injections for a single patient for each day. Nurses are responsible for the injection process but unfortunately they fail to perform the injection process very often in proper prescribed time in proper amount. This malpractice of treatment quite often results in the terrible sufferings of the ICU patients and sometimes a few patients even die. This study aims to minimize the hazard at the highest accuracy level possible. The research relates to the functionality of Real Time Clock (RTC) which provides the activation of automated time system and triggers the microcontroller’s machinery to
act according to the time. According to the doctor’s prescribed time, injection’s medicine will be flowing inside the pipelines and will be injected to the body of the patient through a cannula. In this study, Arduino microcontroller, RTC DS3231 time module, HX 711 weight sensors, relay modules, hydraulic pump motors, wifi shield, resistors, MOSFET and breadboard have been used. Following the prescribed time of doctor, the RTC module programs the time for the activation of the microcontroller. The microcontroller activates the
hydraulic pump motors following the programmed times. The pump motors then create a vacuum environment inside the pipeline and pass the medicine fluid for injection inside the patient’s body through the multiple channel-single cannula. This is consisted of three units: electrical circuitry unit, mechanical unit and timer program with reprogram process unit.

Preprint: https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Sheekar-Banerjee/publication/379537385_The_Smart_Injector_A_Robotic_Approach_of_Automated_Multiple_Injection_System_for_Critical_Patients_using_Real_Time_Clock_Feature/links/660db61010ca8679873c157d/The-Smart-Injector-A-Robotic-Approach-of-Automated-Multiple-Injection-System-for-Critical-Patients-using-Real-Time-Clock-Feature.pdf
